hi everyone Lucy here again and today
we're going to talk more with the TOEFL
speaking test okay today we're gonna
focus on task 5 which is the integrated
summarized problem task okay so in this
lesson first we're going to describe the
task then we're going to talk about the
preparation and presentation stages and
finally it's time for my sample response
ok so the purpose of this lesson is to
understand exactly how to answer a TOEFL
speaking task 5 summarized problem okay
so what exactly is involved in task 5
well you have to listen to a
conversation you have to summarise the
problem and the solutions that they
discussed you need to give your chosen
solution and you have to explain why you
chose that solution so how much time do
you have you have 30 seconds to prepare
a response and you have 60 seconds to
speak okay remember that during the
preparation time as always you should
use that time to make notes using your
scratch paper and pen don't write down
full sentences just a few key words is
fine whatever works for you to help you
organize your thoughts then during the
actual presentation time make sure you
use the full 60 seconds don't stop too
early and make sure you give a complete
response okay now remember it's time to
listen to the conversation and as you
listen to the conversation you should
take notes as you listen okay are you
ready here's the conversation hey Blake
are you and Matt gonna share a dorm
again next semester actually Jessica I'm
not sure I might not be back at school
next semester I might take a semester to
off and move back home
what why is everything okay I lost my
scholarship my grades were too low last
semester I guess I just didn't study
hard enough I might have to go back home
and work for a while to save up enough
to come back wow that's rough we'll miss
you around campus
but aren't there other options like what
about a student loan I thought about
that I could take out a student loan to
pay for the rest of my tuition and other
expenses but that is so much money that
I have to repay plus interest it's a big
burden to take on I know some people who
are
still paying off student loans even 20
years after they graduate I don't want
to be in debt for the rest of my life
what about working over the summer to
save some money that could help you out
I could but it still might not be enough
for the amount I need a summer job won't
cover it I'll have to work for a full
year to save up enough money to pay for
tuition and accommodation on campus I
don't know what to do but I know I want
to finish my degree great now that
you've listened to the conversation it's
time for preparation okay remember
you're going to have 30 seconds use that
scratch paper and pen wisely okay are
you ready now it's time for your
preparation
okay do you feel ready now that you've
done your preparation is time for your
presentation and remember you have 60
seconds use the full 60 seconds don't
stop too early all right are you ready
it's time for your presentation
you
okay how is your response do you feel
confident about it
now it's my turn to give my own sample
response okay I'm going to have 60
seconds and hopefully I can give a
complete response all right here I go so
I think the man should take out a loan
to pay for his school fees and expenses
and supplement payments with a summer
job many people at university don't have
scholarships and they have to work or
take out a loan to make their payments
if he takes a year off school he might
not come back
and if he does he would have wasted all
that time so I think he should take out
the loan he should also work over the
summer to make payments toward the loan
so the interest doesn't add up the more
he can pay off the better then when he
graduates and enters the workforce he
can pay off his loan if he works his way
up the career ladder he should be able
to pay it off in a reasonable time many
graduates do this and I don't think
it'll take 20 years to pay off his loan
as he says if the expenses were that
high then taking off one semester to
earn money isn't going to be enough he
can also work part-time or doing
anything other after-hours work so it's
not one big sum when he graduates okay
so how do I go hopefully that sample
response was helpful to you and thank
you so much for watching if you have any
questions about the TOEFL test don't be
afraid to go to our website at eetu
language comm thank you again for
watching and see you next time bye